{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue34;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18039;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24740\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Github 29Jan2021 (c) Michael2604\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Background. \
Finished high school 1975 in NZ so the only programming we did was Pascal and Fortran using punch-cards. A term or two when I was 15 yo or so but enjoyed it. Punching cards with an unbent paper-clip and then sending the cards away (via the school system) to get them returned four days later with a 'run-time' error was not that encouraging I have to say. \
\
Step forward to around 1984 and got a 'portable' computer for work.... a Philips P2000. 'Luggable' we called it but being my first personal computer I set about using it with CPM as its OS.  This was a tiny but rewarding step forward. The initial machine had 5 1/2" floppies for booting....but soon got the upgraded version with a single 1.44 MB FDD and so the story continues. \
\
Used this machine for work to 'manage' IEEE devices for the Test&Measurement group which I was part of. \
\
Step forward again to around 2004 and now in Australia.\
I started a very small company (essentially a sales office as part of an international org) and I was it. So in order to get internet, email etc. and \'91interface\'92 to the rest of the company I became the IT manager (sic). Bootstrapped myself up and started learning the world of Microsoft on Windows machines and within a couple of years or so we had some 13 staff and my job as 'Administrator' had me installing Microsoft Server, configuring firewalls and fixing the endless problems with distributed user profiles etc. \
\
Please note that I was never 'competent' but put in the hours (after hours) in order to keep it running until we could afford a 'professional'. During this time developed and setup/administered to a global \'91bidding\'92 and QA system based on Microsoft SharePoint.  This version control system (VCS) was definitely not a distributed system and the \'91versioning\'92 control was based on a offline supporting \'91guide lines\'92.  In Australia we were in a different timezone to the vast majority of the rest of the company who were European-based so this allowed for \'91bids\'92 (sales related) to progress overnight and with distributed teams throughout Europe, Asia, South Africa, Australia and NZ.  \
\
Jan 2021 - modern times I have 
\f2\b retired
\f1\b0  and are full time live-aboard our sailing catamaran.  This past November 2020 marked the fifth year anniversary of this extraordinary life-style and being officially \'91itinerant\'92 (AEC) and of \'91no-fixed-abode\'92.\
\cb1 \
\cb3 Have got a few 'bus-related' devices on board within main networks being Raymarine and Victron Energy.  I wish to better utilise the data available and perhaps also make some better sailing, management or organisational decisions with assistance from some 'automated' processes. It is also a new skill I wish to learn.\cb1 \
\cb3 \
Onboard Devices\
Onboard devices include: Raymarine STng and ST (Raymarines proprietary NMEA2000 implementation) for navigation; Victron Energy power and power management (I will put up a list of exactly what but essentially VenusGX (Linux open source on GitHub)); Yanmar 75 hp diesel engines (pre-bus architecture). \
\
Computing - only have Apple these days - trying to limit how much 'sys-admin' I need to do so bit the bullet and as a result we have numerous iOS and MacOS products on board. In the next few days (tbd circa 3 Feb 2021) will be the proud owner of a RaspberryPi4+.\cb1 \
\cb3 \
Objective: to integrate the networks and provide: \
 - common database\
 - injections into the NMEA 2000 bus (for display using traditional MFD\'92s)\
 - create \'91web\'92 pages for display of new and merged data (for navigation e.g. performance metrics, polar diagram, new inputs from analogue/digital world (e.g. fuel & tanks, engines, environment, remote monitoring/management (e.g. alarms, power etc) on both NMEA bus as well as iOS or MacOS.\
\
At this point it is my attempt to leverage off the work already done by so many people who are experts in this field and/or who have put in the hard yards to 'automate' the cruising sailboat environment. I am looking, when competent and with something to offer, to contribute back to this community.  I have in the past done my fair share of time reviewing and editing documents in my native English (UK - actually NZ and AUS version) and this may be an early \'91contribution\'92 step.  Have provided some initial documentation review for \'91Victron Energy\'92.  My tertiary medication was in the field of Electrical / Avionics engineering (military) together with operational flying (P3 Orion).\
\
Decisions [poor, misinformed or otherwise] these are:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
using python3 (have made a 1st pass read of PEP8 Style Guide);\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
installed Pycharm (IDE), Python3 (with IDLE) on MacBook Pro (mid 2015 vintage) and now setting up this GitHub repository.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}looking to use SQLite (database) and to learn the RPi environment along with all of the above.\
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
So I close this version with 
\f2\b \cf0 \'93Come and see the violence inherent in the system. Help! Help! I\'92m being [addressed]!\'94\
\

\f1\b0 \cf2 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}